{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2759
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww11520\viewh8400\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 We will discuss each of the TCP header fields here:\
\
TCP identifies a connection uniquely by using the source port, destination port, source IP address(from IP header), destination Ip address(from IP header) and L4 layer protocol (like TCP or UDP). This combination is called the signature or the connection or socket. Each socket has unique combination of the above values.\
\
Sequence number is an index for each byte  in the byte stream that TCP sends across. 32 bits have been used to represent the sequence number, this means TCP can send 2 ^ 32 -1 bytes of stream without any stoppage. This number is reset to 0 after it reaches this number.\
\
Acknowledgement number is another 32 bit number which is identical to the sequence number. When a receiver sends an acknowledge number, it means it has received all the bytes until acknowledgement number - 1. The acknowledgement is always the number of bytes received + 1.\
\
The header length indicates the length of the TCP header. This is required because TCP allows options to set new header fields. TCP uses 4 bits to provide the header length, that means it can make the total TCP header size to approximately  60 bytes. Without options, the size is 20 bytes.\
\
8 single bit values are used in TCP header for below purposes\
\
A) CWR - Congestion Window Reduced( the sender reduced its sending rate)\
B) ECN - Sender received an earlier congestion notification.\
C) URG - Urgent pointer, used to indicate some part of the TCP exchanged byte stream to be a priority and processed first than the other bytes. This allows TCP to process out-of-order data.\
D) ACK - This is used to indicate the presence of the acknowledgement number. This is always ON after the initial TCP connection establishment, which we discuss in the future sections.\
E) PSH - This bit indicates that TCP should pass this data to the application layers as early as possible.\
F) RST - Reset the connection or abort the connection.\
G) SYN - Used in the initial connection establishment. This TCP segment also sends the initial sequence number which the TCP connection is supposed to use in that direction.\
H) FIN - This bit is used to close the TCP connection. Usually exchanged at the end.\
\
Window Size is used to implement the flow control mechanism by the protocol. This means the receiver is ready to accept the next Window Sized bytes after the acknowledgement. This field is 16 bits, limiting the Window Size to 2 ^ 16 - 1, 65535 bytes.\
\
We will be discussing more about these fields in the upcoming sections.}